We need to get the state into the screen,
and we also need to be
able to start new games and
interact with the game component.
So we're gonna need to expose
some functions from our game
component that the page can interact with.
The first one we'll do is start.
Create a function, start, and
then this is gonna take a level.
All right, when we call this
start function from outside,
that is gonna reset the game state.
So will do, size = level.size.
The grid is a newly created grid.
Remaining and
duration are both equal to level.duration.
And then we're gonna actually start
the game by calling a new function called
resume, which we're about to create.
So now we're gonna set playing to true,
And call our countdown function.
And then the final step is to communicate
that state back up to the page component.
So we're gonna need to create
an event dispatcher for that.
So as before,
const dispatch = CreateEventDispatcher.
And when the game resumes,
we are going to dispatch, A play event.
We need to export this start function so
that we can call it from outside.
And now inside our page.svete component,
when we click on one of these buttons,
we're gonna call that start function.
But before we can do that, we need to
get a reference to the game component,
so we're gonna create, let game, up here,
and then bind that to the game component.
And then inside our event handler,
we're gonna call game.start.
And we also want, we need to pass in the
the level that you wanna start it with.
We need to give a type to this,
this is gonna be a, Game object, and
so that now understands that the start
function takes a level argument.
Okay, so we've got the main component
telling the game component to start a new
game, we now need to get the state back
from the game component into the page.
We'll do that with event handler.
On:play.
We're gonna set the state to playing, and
that's gonna have the effect
of getting rid of the modal.
So if you choose a level,
the game begins, but
we need to get rid of all of the initial
state that we had to begin with.
We don't wanna have
a level already selected,
we don't wanna have a default size.
The grid needs to be empty,
just going to get rid of all of this.
let remaining = 0, let duration = 0.
And we don't even wanna show this
countdown unless the game is currently
active.
So we're just gonna wrap this
whole thing in an if playing.
Okay, so
now we can pick a hard level if you want,
we can choose medium, and
we see that we have some broken CSS.
That's because we're
not parsing the size of
the gameboard down to the grid component.
We can fix that with
a CSS custom property,
And we can then use that
inside the grid component.
If we just find the CSS declaration
where we've hard coded for and
get rid of that and
replace it with, var(--size).
And we can now play a medium game,
or we can play have a hard game and
everything will shrink down accordingly.
So we just need to
communicate the win state and
the lost state, and
then our game is basically complete.
If we found all of the pairs,
we can dispatch a win event,
And if the countdown runs out,
we can dispatch a lose event.
And if someone hits the countdown button,
then we can set playing to false so
that the countdown timer doesn't continue,
and we can also dispatch a pause event.
And then in the top component,
page.svelte, we can add handlers for
each of those changes of state.
[LAUGH] Okay, it is telling us
that we immediately lost the game,
and I think I know why that is.
It's because inside game.svelte,
we're calling the countdown
function as soon as the component
is mounted, which we do not want.
Instead, we want that countdown to
start when the game is resumed or
when we start the game.
So if we get rid of that onMount call,
it should take us to the welcome screen,
where we can start the game.
It is not counting down right now.
That's backwards.
All right, unfortunately,
the only way to check that this
works is to actually play the game.
Did we see the red bird already?
No, not there.
I think we saw the alligator.
Man, I'm so bad at this.
Okay, and it shows us that if
we do in fact win the game,
it'll send us the you
won the game message.